coc-committee-charter-proposed.md, before:

**PROPOSED DRAFT: This proposed working draft is under review and development by the [Code of Conduct Working Group](https://github.com/cncf/wg-coc). It is not a final document. If you would like to propose changes to this document, please do so by opening a pull request, opening an issue, or posting a comment. The first version of this proposed draft was contributed by the [Interim CNCF Code of Conduct Committee](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/committee/) and is based on the interim committee’s own [committee description](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/committee/).**

# CNCF Code of Conduct Committee Charter

## Purpose

The CNCF Code of Conduct Committee (“CoC Committee”) responds to, investigates, and resolves [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) incidents.

The Jurisdiction Policy describes the CoC Committee’s relationship to the Linux Foundation (LF) staff, who enforces the [Linux Foundation Events Code of Conduct](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/about/code-of-conduct/), and project-level Code of Conduct responders (e.g., the Kubernetes Code of Conduct Committee).

## Composition and Selection of Committee Members

The CoC Committee consists of 3 community members and 2 CNCF staff members, plus alternates.

### Community Representatives

The community representatives will be selected as follows:

* The [Technical Oversight Committee](https://www.cncf.io/people/technical-oversight-committee/) (TOC) will appoint 2 primary representatives and 2 alternate representatives, each of whom must be a current or emeritus member of the TOC.
* [CNCF TAG Contributor Strategy](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/) will appoint 1 primary representative and 1 alternate representative, each of whom must be a current member of TAG Contributor Strategy.

There are no fixed terms or term limits. The TOC and TAG-Security may replace their designated representatives at any time. However, for continuity, it is highly encouraged that each representative serve for a duration of 1 year or longer.

### CNCF Staff Representatives

CNCF will appoint 2 staff members to serve on the CoC Committee as primary representatives. 

CNCF may appoint up to 2 alternate staff members to serve on the committee on an ongoing basis. Alternatively, in the event one of the primary CNCF staff representatives is unavailable or has a conflict of interest for a particular incident, CNCF may appoint an alternate staff representative just for that incident.

## Alternates  

Alternates do not participate in resolution of every incident; alternates participate only on an as needed basis to when a primary committee member is unavailable or has a conflict of interest for the purpose of ensuring that multiple Community Members participate in resolution of every incident.

In addition to the alternates described under [Community Representatives](#community-representatives), the primary members of the CoC Committee may invite any of the following to serve as an alternate, either on an ongoing basis or for a particular incident:

* Any current Graduated or Incubating [Maintainer](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/project-maintainers.csv)
* Any current member of the CNCF End User Technical Advisory Board 
* Any current member of a CNCF End User Group
* Any current member of the CNCF Governing Board
* Any current CNCF Ambassador
* The Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the CNCF Marketing Committee

Any individual who serves as an alternate on an ongoing basis (rather than for a particular incident) shall be added to the list of Current Members of the CNCF Code of Conduct Committee.

## Linux Foundation Liaison

When a Code of Conduct incident is subject to both the CNCF Code of Conduct and the Linux Foundation Events Code of Conduct, the Linux Foundation may designate a liaison (the “LF Liaison”) to coordinate efforts between the Linux Foundation and the CoC Committee. The LF Liaison may participate in CoC Committee discussions and meetings regarding the incident on a non-voting basis. 

## How Decisions Are Made

Decisions of the CoC Committee shall be made by consensus whenever possible. In the event consensus cannot be reached, decisions shall be made by majority vote of non-conflicted members of the CoC Committee. A decision to take temporary interim action in the event of an emergency may be taken by any individual CoC Committee member acting in good faith, and the CoC Committee shall review such action and decide whether to confirm or reverse such action. Any permanent action shall require approval of a majority of non-conflicted members of the CoC Committee. The CoC Committee may take action without a meeting if a majority of non-conflicted members express agreement in writing (e.g., email or slack) and none of the non-conflicted CoC Committee members either object to the proposed action or request a meeting to discuss the proposed action within 24 hours after the action is first proposed to the CoC Committee. In the absence of such agreement in writing, the CoC Committee may only take action during or after a meeting takes place at which the proposed action is discussed and agreed to by consensus or voted upon by a quorum of the non-conflicted members. A majority of non-conflicted members shall be deemed a quorum for purposes of a meeting. See the “[Conflict of Interest](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/procedures/#conflicts-of-interest)” section of the Incident Resolution Procedures for more information.

## External Support Resources

The CoC Committee may, in its discretion, engage external mediators, investigators, advisors, and consultants as needed to assist with resolution of CoC Incidents. Any such external resources shall not have a vote, and shall be required to maintain confidentiality in accordance with our [Confidentiality Policy](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/procedures/#confidentiality-policy).

## Incident Resolution Procedures

Please see our [Jurisdiction Policy](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/jurisdiction/) and our [Incident Resolution Procedures](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/procedures/), which address:

-   How to submit a report
-   What information to share in your report
-   What happens after a report is submitted
-   Resolution
-   Information sharing
-   Confidentiality Policy
-   No retaliation
-   Conflicts of interest
    
## Licensing

This document is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Commit message:

Rough draft for elected seats
Signed-off-by: Amye Scavarda Perrin <amye@linuxfoundation.org>

coc-committee-charter-proposed.md, after:

**PROPOSED DRAFT: This proposed working draft is under review and development by the [Code of Conduct Working Group](https://github.com/cncf/wg-coc). It is not a final document. If you would like to propose changes to this document, please do so by opening a pull request, opening an issue, or posting a comment. The first version of this proposed draft was contributed by the [Interim CNCF Code of Conduct Committee](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/committee/) and is based on the interim committee’s own [committee description](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/committee/).**

# CNCF Code of Conduct Committee Charter

## Purpose

The CNCF Code of Conduct Committee (“CoC Committee”) responds to, investigates, and resolves [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) incidents.

The Jurisdiction Policy describes the CoC Committee’s relationship to the Linux Foundation (LF) staff, who enforces the [Linux Foundation Events Code of Conduct](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/about/code-of-conduct/), and project-level Code of Conduct responders (e.g., the Kubernetes Code of Conduct Committee).

## Composition and Selection of Committee Members

The CoC Committee consists of 3 community members and 2 CNCF staff members, plus alternates.

### Community Representatives

The community representatives will be selected as follows:

* The [Technical Oversight Committee](https://www.cncf.io/people/technical-oversight-committee/) (TOC) will appoint 2 primary representatives and 2 alternate representatives, each of whom must be a current or emeritus member of the TOC.
* [CNCF TAG Contributor Strategy](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/) will appoint 1 primary representative and 1 alternate representative, each of whom must be a current member of TAG Contributor Strategy.

There are no fixed terms or term limits. The TOC and TAG-Security may replace their designated representatives at any time. However, for continuity, it is highly encouraged that each representative serve for a duration of 1 year or longer.

### CNCF Staff Representatives

CNCF will appoint 2 staff members to serve on the CoC Committee as primary representatives. 

CNCF may appoint up to 2 alternate staff members to serve on the committee on an ongoing basis. Alternatively, in the event one of the primary CNCF staff representatives is unavailable or has a conflict of interest for a particular incident, CNCF may appoint an alternate staff representative just for that incident.

## Alternates  

Alternates do not participate in resolution of every incident; alternates participate only on an as needed basis to when a primary committee member is unavailable or has a conflict of interest for the purpose of ensuring that multiple Community Members participate in resolution of every incident.

In addition to the alternates described under [Community Representatives](#community-representatives), the primary members of the CoC Committee may invite any of the following to serve as an alternate, either on an ongoing basis or for a particular incident:

* Any current Graduated or Incubating [Maintainer](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/project-maintainers.csv)
* Any current member of the CNCF End User Technical Advisory Board 
* Any current member of a CNCF End User Group
* Any current member of the CNCF Governing Board
* Any current CNCF Ambassador
* The Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the CNCF Marketing Committee

Any individual who serves as an alternate on an ongoing basis (rather than for a particular incident) shall be added to the list of Current Members of the CNCF Code of Conduct Committee.

## Election cycle

Elected seats: maintainer primary + alternate, two year staggered terms

Voting group: graduated and incubating maintainers

## Voting Process
Call for nominations: E-28
End of call for nominations E-21
Qualification Period: TOC + GB - E-14 days
Qualified Nominees announced: E-7
A ballot will be distributed on E-7
The election will be completed on: Noon PT, E-day and election results are announced

## Linux Foundation Liaison

When a Code of Conduct incident is subject to both the CNCF Code of Conduct and the Linux Foundation Events Code of Conduct, the Linux Foundation may designate a liaison (the “LF Liaison”) to coordinate efforts between the Linux Foundation and the CoC Committee. The LF Liaison may participate in CoC Committee discussions and meetings regarding the incident on a non-voting basis. 

## How Decisions Are Made

Decisions of the CoC Committee shall be made by consensus whenever possible. In the event consensus cannot be reached, decisions shall be made by majority vote of non-conflicted members of the CoC Committee. A decision to take temporary interim action in the event of an emergency may be taken by any individual CoC Committee member acting in good faith, and the CoC Committee shall review such action and decide whether to confirm or reverse such action. Any permanent action shall require approval of a majority of non-conflicted members of the CoC Committee. The CoC Committee may take action without a meeting if a majority of non-conflicted members express agreement in writing (e.g., email or slack) and none of the non-conflicted CoC Committee members either object to the proposed action or request a meeting to discuss the proposed action within 24 hours after the action is first proposed to the CoC Committee. In the absence of such agreement in writing, the CoC Committee may only take action during or after a meeting takes place at which the proposed action is discussed and agreed to by consensus or voted upon by a quorum of the non-conflicted members. A majority of non-conflicted members shall be deemed a quorum for purposes of a meeting. See the “[Conflict of Interest](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/procedures/#conflicts-of-interest)” section of the Incident Resolution Procedures for more information.

## External Support Resources

The CoC Committee may, in its discretion, engage external mediators, investigators, advisors, and consultants as needed to assist with resolution of CoC Incidents. Any such external resources shall not have a vote, and shall be required to maintain confidentiality in accordance with our [Confidentiality Policy](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/procedures/#confidentiality-policy).

## Incident Resolution Procedures

Please see our [Jurisdiction Policy](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/jurisdiction/) and our [Incident Resolution Procedures](https://www.cncf.io/conduct/procedures/), which address:

-   How to submit a report
-   What information to share in your report
-   What happens after a report is submitted
-   Resolution
-   Information sharing
-   Confidentiality Policy
-   No retaliation
-   Conflicts of interest
    
## Licensing

This document is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
